Update navigation mesh baking doc (#8591)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/navigation/navigation_using_navigationmeshes.rst

   :align: center
   :alt: Navigation mesh baking steps

   Baking a navigation mesh with agent radius offset from geometry.

The navigation mesh baking is made more accessible with the NavigationRegion node. When baking with a NavigationRegion node the individual parsing, baking and region update steps are all combined into one function.

The nodes are available in 2D and 3D as :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>` and :ref:`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>` respectively.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion2D

        When a NavigationRegion2D node is selected in the Editor bake options as well as polygon draw tools appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_02.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

>         - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more detail what objects are parsed and how see the section about parsing source geometry further below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
```
"Further" is redundant here IMO, alternatively "further down".

>         - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the 'parsed_geometry_type' includes static colliders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the ``parsed_geometry_type`` includes static colliders.
```

        - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.

>         - The ``source_geometry_group_name`` is used when only a certain node group should be parsed. Depends on the selected 'source_geometry_mode'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - The ``source_geometry_group_name`` is used when only a certain node group should be parsed. Depends on the selected ``source_geometry_mode``.
```

>         With the source geometry added the result of the baking can be influenced with the following properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        With the source geometry added, the result of the baking can be controlled with the following properties.
```

>         - The ``cell_size`` sets the rasterization grid cells and should match the navigation map size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``cell_size`` sets the rasterization grid size and should match the navigation map size.
```
I say repeating `cell` doesn't add the necessary information

>         - The ``agent_radius`` that shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``agent_radius`` shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.
```
Redundant IMO, otherwise use it above for consistency

        - Add a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource to the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Add a :ref:`Polygon2D<class_Polygon2D>` below the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Draw 1 NavigationPolygon outline with the selected NavigationRegion2D draw tool.
        - Draw 1 Polygon2D outline inside the NavigationPolygon outline with the selected Polygon2D draw tool.
        - Hit the Editor bake button and a navigation mesh should appear.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_mini_2d.webp

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion3D

        When a NavigationRegion3D node is selected in the Editor bake options appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_bake_toolbar.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region3d_baking_01.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

>         - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more detail what objects are parsed and how see the section about parsing source geometry further below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
```

>         - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the 'parsed_geometry_type' includes static colliders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the ``parsed_geometry_type`` includes static colliders.
```

        - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.

>         - The ``source_geometry_group_name`` is used when only a certain node group should be parsed. Depends on the selected 'source_geometry_mode'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - The ``source_geometry_group_name`` is used when only a certain node group should be parsed. Depends on the selected ``source_geometry_mode``.
```

>         With the source geometry added the result of the baking can be influenced with the following properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        With the source geometry added, the result of the baking can be controlled with the following properties.
```

>         - The ``cell_size`` and ``cell_height`` that sets the rasterization voxel grid cells and should match the navigation map size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``cell_size`` and ``cell_height`` sets the rasterization voxel grid size and should match the navigation map size.
```

>         - The ``agent_radius`` that shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``agent_radius`` shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.
```

>         - The ``agent_height`` that excludes places from the navigation mesh where the agent can not fit in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``agent_height`` excludes areas from the navigation mesh where the agent is too tall to fit in.
```
Specificity IMO, even though it could be considered obvious

>         - The ``agent_max_climp`` and ``agent_max_slope`` removes places where their voxels are too height from their neighbors or where their surface is too steep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``agent_max_climp`` and ``agent_max_slope`` removes areas where the hight difference between neighboring voxels is too large, or where their surface is too steep.
```

Reviewer: (my bad spelling broke)

        - Add a :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` below the NavigationRegion3D.
        - Add a :ref:`PlaneMesh<class_PlaneMesh>` to the MeshInstance3D.
        - Hit the Editor bake button and a navigation mesh should appear.

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_bake_toolbar.webp

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_mini_3d.webp

.. _doc_navigation_using_navigationmeshes_baking_navigation_mesh_with_navigationserver:

Baking a navigation mesh with the NavigationServer
--------------------------------------------------

The :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>` and :ref:`NavigationServer3D<class_NavigationServer3D>` have API functions to call each step of the navigation mesh baking process individually.

- ``parse_source_geometry_data()`` can be used to parse source geometry to a reusable and serializable resource.
- ``bake_from_source_geometry_data()`` can be used to bake a navigation mesh from already parsed data e.g. to avoid runtime performance issues with (redundant) parsing.
- ``bake_from_source_geometry_data_async()`` is the same but bakes the navigation mesh deferred with threads, not blocking the main thread.

> Compared to a NavigationRegion, the NavigationServer gives finer control over the navigation mesh baking process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to a NavigationRegion, the NavigationServer offers finer control over the navigation mesh baking process.
```

In turn it is more complex to use but also provides more advanced options.

Some other advantages of the NavigationServer over a NavigationRegion are:

- The server can parse source geometry without baking, e.g. to cache it for later use.

> - The server allows to select the root node at which the source geometry parsing starts manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The server allows selecting the root node at which to start the source geometry parsing manually.
```
Reads better IMO with the important information earlier

> - The server can accept and bake from source geometry data that was created procedurally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The server can accept and bake from procedurally generated source geometry data.
```

- The server can bake multiple navigation meshes in sequence while (re)using the same source geometry data.

> To bake navigation meshes with the NavigationServer source geometry is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bake navigation meshes with the NavigationServer, source geometry is required.
```

Source geometry is geometry data that should be considered in a navigation mesh baking process.
Both navigation meshes for 2D and 3D are created by baking them from source geometry.

2D and 3D versions of the source geometry resources are available as
:ref:`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData2D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData2D>` and
:ref:`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D>`  respectively.

> Source geometry can be geometry parsed from visual meshes, from physics collision 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source geometry can be geometry parsed from visual meshes, from physics collision,
```

or procedural created arrays of data, like outlines (2D) and triangle faces (3D).
For convenience source geometry is commonly parsed directly from node setups in the SceneTree.

> For runtime navigation mesh (re)bakes user need to be aware that the geometry parsing always happens on the main thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For runtime navigation mesh (re)bakes, be aware that the geometry parsing always happens on the main thread.
```

.. warning::

    The data from visual meshes and polygons need to be received from the GPU, stalling the RenderingServer in the process.
    For runtime (re)baking prefer using physics shapes as parsed source geometry.

Source geometry is stored inside resources so the created geometry can be reused for multiple bakes.
E.g. baking multiple navigation meshes for different agent sizes from the same source geometry.
This also allows to save source geometry to disk so it can be loaded later, e.g. to avoid the overhead of parsing it again at runtime.

The geometry data should be in general kept very simple. As many edges as are required but as few as possible.
Especially in 2D duplicated and nested geometry should be avoided as it forces polygon hole calculation that can result in flipped polygons.
An example for nested geometry would be a smaller StaticBody2D shape placed completely inside the bounds of another StaticBody2D shape.

Navigation mesh baking common problems
--------------------------------------

There are some common user problems and important caveats to consider when creating or baking navigation meshes.

- Navigation mesh baking creates frame rate problems at runtime

>     The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread so as long as the platform supports threads the actual baking is rarely the source of any performance issues (assuming a reasonably sized and complex geometry for runtime rebakes). The common source for performance issues at runtime with navigation mesh baking is the parsing step for source geometry that involves nodes and the SceneTree. The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main-thread. Some nodes with a lot of data can be very heavy and slow to parse at runtime, e.g. a TileMap has one or more polygons for every single used cell and TileMapLayer to parse. Nodes that hold meshes need to request the data from the RenderingServer stalling the rendering in the process. To improve performance use more optimized shapes, e.g. collision shapes over detailed visual meshes, and merge and simplify as much geometry as possible upfront. If nothing helps don't parse the SceneTree and add the source geometry procedural with scripts. If only pure data arrays are used as source geometry the entire baking process can be done on a background thread.

Reviewer: This block needs to be broken up in source

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion2D

        When a NavigationRegion2D node is selected in the Editor bake options as well as polygon draw tools appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_02.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
        - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the ``parsed_geometry_type`` includes static colliders.

>         - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing, and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
```

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_mini_2d.webp

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion3D

        When a NavigationRegion3D node is selected in the Editor bake options appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_bake_toolbar.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region3d_baking_01.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
        - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the ``parsed_geometry_type`` includes static colliders.

>         - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing, and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
```

E.g. baking multiple navigation meshes for different agent sizes from the same source geometry.
This also allows to save source geometry to disk so it can be loaded later, e.g. to avoid the overhead of parsing it again at runtime.

The geometry data should be in general kept very simple. As many edges as are required but as few as possible.
Especially in 2D duplicated and nested geometry should be avoided as it forces polygon hole calculation that can result in flipped polygons.
An example for nested geometry would be a smaller StaticBody2D shape placed completely inside the bounds of another StaticBody2D shape.

Navigation mesh baking common problems
--------------------------------------

There are some common user problems and important caveats to consider when creating or baking navigation meshes.

- Navigation mesh baking creates frame rate problems at runtime
    The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread so as long as the platform supports threads the actual baking is rarely the source of any performance issues (assuming a reasonably sized and complex geometry for runtime rebakes).

>     The common source for performance issues at runtime is the parsing step for source geometry that involves nodes and the SceneTree. The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main-thread. Some nodes with a lot of data can be very heavy and slow to parse at runtime, e.g. a TileMap has one or more polygons for every single used cell and TileMapLayer to parse. Nodes that hold meshes need to request the data from the RenderingServer stalling the rendering in the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The common source for performance issues at runtime is the parsing step for source geometry that involves nodes and the SceneTree.
    The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main-thread.
    Some nodes with a lot of data can be very heavy and slow to parse at runtime, e.g. a TileMap has one or more polygons for every single used cell and TileMapLayer to parse.
    Nodes that hold meshes need to request the data from the RenderingServer stalling the rendering in the process.
```
These big blocks need to be broken up for the source, the lines should not be too wide, compare with for example lines 178-181

If you experience clipping or collision problems while following navigation paths, always remember that you need to tell the navigation system what your intentions are through an appropriate navigation mesh.
By itself the navigation system will never know "this is a tree / rock / wall collision shape or visual mesh" because it only knows that "here I was told I can path safely because it is on a navigation mesh".

.. _doc_navigation_navmesh_baking:

Navigation mesh baking can be done either by using a :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>` or :ref:`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>`, or by using the 
:ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>` and :ref:`NavigationServer3D<class_NavigationServer3D>` API directly.

.. _doc_navigation_using_navigationmeshes_baking_navigation_mesh_with_navigationregion:

Baking a navigation mesh with a NavigationRegion
------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: img/nav_mesh_baking_steps.gif
   :align: center
   :alt: Navigation mesh baking steps

   Baking a navigation mesh with agent radius offset from geometry.

> The navigation mesh baking is made more accessible with the NavigationRegion node. When baking with a NavigationRegion node the individual parsing, baking and region update steps are all combined into one function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The navigation mesh baking is made more accessible with the NavigationRegion node. When baking with a NavigationRegion
node the individual parsing, baking and region update steps are all combined into one function.
```

The nodes are available in 2D and 3D as :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>` and :ref:`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>` respectively.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion2D

        When a NavigationRegion2D node is selected in the Editor bake options as well as polygon draw tools appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_02.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

>         - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
          For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
```

        - Add a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource to the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Add a :ref:`Polygon2D<class_Polygon2D>` below the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Draw 1 NavigationPolygon outline with the selected NavigationRegion2D draw tool.
        - Draw 1 Polygon2D outline inside the NavigationPolygon outline with the selected Polygon2D draw tool.
        - Hit the Editor bake button and a navigation mesh should appear.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_mini_2d.webp

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion3D

        When a NavigationRegion3D node is selected in the Editor bake options appear in the top bar of the Editor.

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_bake_toolbar.webp

        In order for the region to work a :ref:`NavigationMesh<class_NavigationMesh>` resource needs to be added.

        The properties to parse and bake a navigation mesh are then part of the used resource and can be found in the resource Inspector.

        .. image:: img/nav_region3d_baking_01.webp

        The result of the source geometry parsing can be influenced with the following properties.

>         - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`. For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
          For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
```

.. warning::

    The data from visual meshes and polygons need to be received from the GPU, stalling the RenderingServer in the process.
    For runtime (re)baking prefer using physics shapes as parsed source geometry.

Source geometry is stored inside resources so the created geometry can be reused for multiple bakes.
E.g. baking multiple navigation meshes for different agent sizes from the same source geometry.
This also allows to save source geometry to disk so it can be loaded later, e.g. to avoid the overhead of parsing it again at runtime.

The geometry data should be in general kept very simple. As many edges as are required but as few as possible.
Especially in 2D duplicated and nested geometry should be avoided as it forces polygon hole calculation that can result in flipped polygons.
An example for nested geometry would be a smaller StaticBody2D shape placed completely inside the bounds of another StaticBody2D shape.

Navigation mesh baking common problems
--------------------------------------

There are some common user problems and important caveats to consider when creating or baking navigation meshes.

- Navigation mesh baking creates frame rate problems at runtime

>     The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread so as long as the platform supports threads the actual baking is rarely the source of any performance issues (assuming a reasonably sized and complex geometry for runtime rebakes).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread so as long as the platform supports threads the actual baking is
    rarely the source of any performance issues (assuming a reasonably sized and complex geometry for runtime rebakes).
```

    The common source for performance issues at runtime is the parsing step for source geometry that involves nodes and the SceneTree.
    The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main-thread.
    Some nodes with a lot of data can be very heavy and slow to parse at runtime, e.g. a TileMap has one or more polygons for every single used cell and TileMapLayer to parse.
    Nodes that hold meshes need to request the data from the RenderingServer stalling the rendering in the process.

>     To improve performance use more optimized shapes, e.g. collision shapes over detailed visual meshes, and merge and simplify as much geometry as possible upfront. If nothing helps don't parse the SceneTree and add the source geometry procedural with scripts. If only pure data arrays are used as source geometry the entire baking process can be done on a background thread.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To improve performance use more optimized shapes, e.g. collision shapes over detailed visual meshes, and merge and simplify as much geometry as possible upfront.
    If nothing helps don't parse the SceneTree and add the source geometry procedural with scripts. If only pure data arrays are used as source geometry the entire baking process can be done on a background thread.
```

- Navigation mesh creates unintended holes in 2D.
    The navigation mesh baking in 2D is done by doing polygon clipping operations based on outline paths.
    Polygons with "holes" are a necessary evil to create more complex 2D polygons but can become unpredictable for users with many complex shapes involved.

    To avoid any unexpected problems with polygon hole calculations avoid nesting any outlines inside other outlines for the same type (traversable / obstruction).
    This includes the parsed shapes from nodes. E.g. placing a smaller StaticBody2D shape inside a larger StaticBody2D shape can result in the resulting polygon being flipped.

- Navigation mesh appears inside geometry in 3D.
    The navigation mesh baking in 3D has no concept of "inside". The voxel cells used to rasterize the geometry are either occupied or not.

>     Remove the geometry that is on the ground inside other geometry. If that is not possible add smaller "dummy" geometry inside with as few triangles as possible so the cells are occupied with something.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Remove the geometry that is on the ground inside other geometry. If that is not possible add smaller "dummy" geometry inside with as few triangles as possible so the cells
    are occupied with something.
```

By itself the navigation system will never know "this is a tree / rock / wall collision shape or visual mesh" because it only knows that "here I was told I can path safely because it is on a navigation mesh".

.. _doc_navigation_navmesh_baking:

Navigation mesh baking can be done either by using a :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>` or :ref:`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>`, or by using the 
:ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>` and :ref:`NavigationServer3D<class_NavigationServer3D>` API directly.

.. _doc_navigation_using_navigationmeshes_baking_navigation_mesh_with_navigationregion:

Baking a navigation mesh with a NavigationRegion
------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: img/nav_mesh_baking_steps.gif
   :align: center
   :alt: Navigation mesh baking steps

   Baking a navigation mesh with agent radius offset from geometry.

The navigation mesh baking is made more accessible with the NavigationRegion node. When baking with a NavigationRegion

> node the individual parsing, baking and region update steps are all combined into one function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
node, the individual parsing, baking, and region update steps are all combined into one function.
```

The nodes are available in 2D and 3D as :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>` and :ref:`NavigationRegion3D<class_NavigationRegion3D>` respectively.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion2D

>         When a NavigationRegion2D node is selected in the Editor bake options as well as polygon draw tools appear in the top bar of the Editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        When a NavigationRegion2D node is selected in the Editor, bake options as well as polygon draw tools appear in the top bar of the Editor.
```

        - The ``cell_size`` sets the rasterization grid size and should match the navigation map size.
        - The ``agent_radius`` shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.

        The NavigationRegion2D baking can also be used at runtime with scripts.

        .. tabs::
         .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

            var on_thread: bool = true
            bake_navigation_polygon(on_thread)

        To quickly test the 2D baking with default settings:

        - Add a :ref:`NavigationRegion2D<class_NavigationRegion2D>`.
        - Add a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource to the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Add a :ref:`Polygon2D<class_Polygon2D>` below the NavigationRegion2D.
        - Draw 1 NavigationPolygon outline with the selected NavigationRegion2D draw tool.
        - Draw 1 Polygon2D outline inside the NavigationPolygon outline with the selected Polygon2D draw tool.
        - Hit the Editor bake button and a navigation mesh should appear.

        .. image:: img/nav_region_baking_01.webp

        .. image:: img/nav_mesh_mini_2d.webp

   .. tab:: Baking with a NavigationRegion3D

>         When a NavigationRegion3D node is selected in the Editor bake options appear in the top bar of the Editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        When a NavigationRegion3D node is selected in the Editor, bake options appear in the top bar of the Editor.
```

        - The ``parsed_geometry_type`` that filters if visual objects or physics objects or both should be parsed from the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
          For more details on what objects are parsed and how, see the section about parsing source geometry below.
        - The ``collision_mask`` filters which physics collision objects are included when the ``parsed_geometry_type`` includes static colliders.
        - The ``source_geometry_mode`` that defines on which node(s) to start the parsing, and how to traverse the :ref:`SceneTree<class_SceneTree>`.
        - The ``source_geometry_group_name`` is used when only a certain node group should be parsed. Depends on the selected ``source_geometry_mode``.

        With the source geometry added, the result of the baking can be controlled with the following properties.

        - The ``cell_size`` and ``cell_height`` sets the rasterization voxel grid size and should match the navigation map size.
        - The ``agent_radius`` shrinks the baked navigation mesh to have enough margin for the agent (collision) size.
        - The ``agent_height`` excludes areas from the navigation mesh where the agent is too tall to fit in.

>         - The ``agent_max_climp`` and ``agent_max_slope`` removes areas where the height difference between neighboring voxels is too large, or where their surface is too steep.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - The ``agent_max_climb`` and ``agent_max_slope`` removes areas where the height difference between neighboring voxels is too large, or where their surface is too steep.
```

Some other advantages of the NavigationServer over a NavigationRegion are:

- The server can parse source geometry without baking, e.g. to cache it for later use.
- The server allows selecting the root node at which to start the source geometry parsing manually.
- The server can accept and bake from procedurally generated source geometry data.
- The server can bake multiple navigation meshes in sequence while (re)using the same source geometry data.

To bake navigation meshes with the NavigationServer, source geometry is required.
Source geometry is geometry data that should be considered in a navigation mesh baking process.
Both navigation meshes for 2D and 3D are created by baking them from source geometry.

2D and 3D versions of the source geometry resources are available as
:ref:`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData2D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData2D>` and
:ref:`NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D<class_NavigationMeshSourceGeometryData3D>`  respectively.

Source geometry can be geometry parsed from visual meshes, from physics collision,
or procedural created arrays of data, like outlines (2D) and triangle faces (3D).

> For convenience source geometry is commonly parsed directly from node setups in the SceneTree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For convenience, source geometry is commonly parsed directly from node setups in the SceneTree.
```

For runtime navigation mesh (re)bakes, be aware that the geometry parsing always happens on the main thread.

.. note::

    The SceneTree is not thread-safe. Parsing source geometry from the SceneTree can only be done on the main thread.

.. warning::

>     The data from visual meshes and polygons need to be received from the GPU, stalling the RenderingServer in the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The data from visual meshes and polygons needs to be received from the GPU, stalling the RenderingServer in the process.
```

    For runtime (re)baking prefer using physics shapes as parsed source geometry.

Source geometry is stored inside resources so the created geometry can be reused for multiple bakes.
E.g. baking multiple navigation meshes for different agent sizes from the same source geometry.
This also allows to save source geometry to disk so it can be loaded later, e.g. to avoid the overhead of parsing it again at runtime.

The geometry data should be in general kept very simple. As many edges as are required but as few as possible.
Especially in 2D duplicated and nested geometry should be avoided as it forces polygon hole calculation that can result in flipped polygons.
An example for nested geometry would be a smaller StaticBody2D shape placed completely inside the bounds of another StaticBody2D shape.

Navigation mesh baking common problems
--------------------------------------

There are some common user problems and important caveats to consider when creating or baking navigation meshes.

- Navigation mesh baking creates frame rate problems at runtime

>     The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread so as long as the platform supports threads the actual baking is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The navigation mesh baking is by default done on a background thread, so as long as the platform supports threads, the actual baking is
```

    rarely the source of any performance issues (assuming a reasonably sized and complex geometry for runtime rebakes).

    The common source for performance issues at runtime is the parsing step for source geometry that involves nodes and the SceneTree.

>     The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main-thread.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The SceneTree is not thread-safe so all the nodes need to be parsed on the main thread.
```

    Some nodes with a lot of data can be very heavy and slow to parse at runtime, e.g. a TileMap has one or more polygons for every single used cell and TileMapLayer to parse.
    Nodes that hold meshes need to request the data from the RenderingServer stalling the rendering in the process.

>     To improve performance use more optimized shapes, e.g. collision shapes over detailed visual meshes, and merge and simplify as much geometry as possible upfront.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To improve performance, use more optimized shapes, e.g. collision shapes over detailed visual meshes, and merge and simplify as much geometry as possible upfront.
```

>     If nothing helps don't parse the SceneTree and add the source geometry procedural with scripts. If only pure data arrays are used as source geometry the entire baking process can be done on a background thread.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If nothing helps, don't parse the SceneTree and add the source geometry procedural with scripts. If only pure data arrays are used as source geometry, the entire baking process can be done on a background thread.
```

- Navigation mesh creates unintended holes in 2D.
    The navigation mesh baking in 2D is done by doing polygon clipping operations based on outline paths.
    Polygons with "holes" are a necessary evil to create more complex 2D polygons but can become unpredictable for users with many complex shapes involved.

>     To avoid any unexpected problems with polygon hole calculations avoid nesting any outlines inside other outlines for the same type (traversable / obstruction).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To avoid any unexpected problems with polygon hole calculations, avoid nesting any outlines inside other outlines of the same type (traversable / obstruction).
```

    This includes the parsed shapes from nodes. E.g. placing a smaller StaticBody2D shape inside a larger StaticBody2D shape can result in the resulting polygon being flipped.

- Navigation mesh appears inside geometry in 3D.
    The navigation mesh baking in 3D has no concept of "inside". The voxel cells used to rasterize the geometry are either occupied or not.

>     Remove the geometry that is on the ground inside other geometry. If that is not possible add smaller "dummy" geometry inside with as few triangles as possible so the cells

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Remove the geometry that is on the ground inside the other geometry. If that is not possible, add smaller "dummy" geometry inside with as few triangles as possible so the cells
```
